Upload checker
==============

What it does
------------
Two things, and it asks which one you want:

  1. BEFORE you upload - looks at a folder on your computer and tells you which
     files would fail or cause trouble: names SharePoint refuses, paths that
     get too long, empty files, very large files, leftover junk.
     No sign-in. Nothing leaves your computer.

  2. AFTER you upload - signs you in and compares the folder with the library,
     so you know whether everything actually arrived.

It only looks. It never uploads, deletes, moves or changes anything, on your
computer or in SharePoint.


How to use it
-------------
1. Double-click  Check-Upload.cmd
   (or drag the folder you want checked onto it, to skip the first question)

2. A window opens: pick the folder you are uploading.

3. Choose 1, 2 or 3 when asked.

   If you choose 2 or 3, a window asks where in SharePoint the files went. Do
   not type it. Open that folder in SharePoint, copy the whole address out of
   your browser's address bar, and paste it into the box with Ctrl+V. If you
   copied it just before starting, it is already in the box. A Microsoft
   sign-in window follows.

   Copying beats typing, and this is why: on a Teams site the files sit under
   a hidden channel folder, so the folder that reads as "Test" is really
   "General/Test". The address has that in it. A person retyping it does not.
   Paste the address of the site or of the library instead, and you get a
   numbered list to pick your way down from.

   One address does not work: the one from the "Copy link" button. It names
   no folder. Use the address bar.

   Put the address in upload-check.xml and it stops asking.

4. It finishes with a summary on screen and the name of the report it wrote.
   Nothing opens by itself: the reports wait for you in the "out" folder.
   Open the .html one in a browser to read the full list. It says at the top
   what was checked, and then what it found:

     Red    = fix this before uploading
     Yellow = worth a look
     Grey   = information only

   "Nothing to report" with a summary above it means your folder is fine.


Changing what it checks
-----------------------
Everything adjustable lives in  upload-check.xml  next to Check-Upload.cmd.
Open it in Notepad: each setting has a note above it saying what it does and
what happens if you leave it alone. Save the file and the next run uses it.

The two worth knowing about:

  Folder             set this to a fixed path and it stops asking every time
  Destination        the address of the SharePoint folder, pasted from your
                     browser. Fill it in and it stops asking that too - and
                     you get warned about paths that would be too long once
                     the files are there, without signing in to anything

If you mistype something in there, the checker says which line is wrong and
what it expected. It will not run with settings it does not understand.


The first time
--------------
If a window says PowerShell 7 is missing, it needs installing once. Open the
Start menu, type "cmd", press Enter, and paste this:

    winget install --id Microsoft.PowerShell

Then run Check-Upload.cmd again.

If Windows warns that the file came from another computer: close everything,
right-click the ZIP you were sent, choose Properties, tick "Unblock", press OK,
and extract it again.


Where the reports go
--------------------
Into the "out" folder next to Check-Upload.cmd, one folder per run. Old reports
are never deleted, so you can compare runs or send one to a colleague -- the
HTML file is self-contained and opens anywhere.


For whoever set this up
-----------------------
The launcher is a wrapper around:

    pwsh -File scripts/Test-Upload.ps1 -LocalPath <folder> [settings from the xml]

Check-Upload.cmd only locates a PowerShell and hands over to
Start-UploadCheck.ps1, which reads upload-check.xml, checks the prerequisites
and builds that command. The bootstrap is deliberately written for Windows
PowerShell 5.1, so it is able to report a missing PowerShell 7 rather than
failing to start.

Exit codes: 0 nothing to fix, 1 findings, 2 a setup problem (missing files,
unreadable settings, no PowerShell 7).

Test-Upload.ps1 also verifies an upload after the fact (-Mode Verify) and takes
a target library, path limits, a blocked-extension list and an exit-code
policy. Run  Get-Help scripts/Test-Upload.ps1 -Full  for the details. The
tenant-facing parts need the PnP.PowerShell module and a connection profile;
everything the launcher does deliberately needs neither.
